[[ARL Cover Letter Outline]]

Hello,

I’m a sophomore at the University of Maryland, studying mechanical engineering and computer science. I see myself as a maker, learner, and most importantly an excellent collaborator. Whether it’s woodworking, music, or electronics, I love to design and make things. I’m always curious and researching something in my free time. Currently, most of my YouTube rabbit holes or literature reading is about AI, Physics, Economics, and anything having to do with cars.

Last summer I worked as a contractor to ARL under Dr. Herrmann. Our summer project was modifying the Phoenix Ground Autonomy Stack to run multiple navigation algorithms concurrently. (previously configured to run one at a time) 
Different algorithms performed differently depending on the environment, so we created a system to switch to functional algorithms at any given time. Once a navigation algorithm failed to compute a path, our algorithm switched to a non-failing algorithm. 

We used a multiplexer approach where each algorithm ran, and our node decided which would be forwarded as an output. We created three mission files with differing difficulties and ran an experiment. Our results found that our solution reduced failure rates by approximately 20% compared to the unaltered stack.  (link to our technical report here) As a result of the internship, I am very familiar with the Phoenix stack and can write ROS nodes in either C++ or Python. I also got experience with physical robots by designing a sensor baseplate and helping Kevin Carey integrate sensors onto the Clearpath Jackal. I learned so much working with ARL last summer, and can’t wait to continue working on fascinating new challenges.

There are three projects in the National Security Scholars Internship that caught my eye. The Multi-Agent Collaboration project is fascinating to me. I’ve read a few papers on metareasoning with UAVs, so I have some background knowledge on different metareasoning collaboration models. I find autonomous collaboration a fascinating field of research, and would be an excellent continuation of my robotics skills. Most importantly, autonomous collaboration is very interesting to me, and something I could see pursuing in my career.

The Aerial Perception projects are my second choice, and also look incredibly interesting. This project appeals to me because I love working with physical robots. In my past internship, I enjoyed working with the Clearpath Jackal, and want to gain more skills working with physical robots. Seeing my hard work with the stack translate into results on a physical robot is the most rewarding thing ever. Working with robots is also a skill I want to further develop as a mechanical engineer. I haven’t taken all the classes listed on the doc, but I’m a quick learner. I’m confident that I can put in the extra work required to excel in this project.

My classes at UMD have exposed me to different aspects of robotics. In my introduction to engineering class, we built a robot from scratch using an Arduino, and I programmed it to navigate an arena autonomously. The robot also detected the dimensions of a box in the arena. This class brought me a good background in how robots work as well as some common skills troubleshooting physical robots. Additionally, I’ve also taken classes in CAD and dynamics that will be useful in this internship. I also participated in the MIT 6.S191 Deep Learning Winter Course. In the course I created a recursive neural network that, using a large dataset of Irish folk music, that could form 30s long songs. While I’m not an expert in Deep Learning, the course gave me a solid baseline to learn from.

I’m also working on a few projects at the moment. Over winter break, I’ve been making a shelf out of poplar wood from scratch for my friend’s birthday. I also made my own set of corn hole boards, which I still need to apply a wood finish to. My big project, though is trying to make an autonomous robot from scratch. I have a Raspberry Pi 3, a 2D LIDAR, and an IMU. My 3D printer at home is broken, but so far I’ve created the base for the robot, and set up ROS to interface with the Raspberry Pi. I’m going to need to use my laptop to do most of the computation for the robot, but I plan to use the Pi for data collection and motor control. Once I fix my 3D Printer I can finally put the whole thing together.

I have a few main goals for the summer. My first goal is to get more experience working with physical robots, preferably testing what I make on a physical platform. Second, I want to deepen my understanding of robot autonomy. Lastly, I want to work on a project I find really cool. I’m really excited for this opportunity to provide value to the Army, while developing my robotics skills. If there are any questiosn please reach out to me.